docs/docs/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting Started
order: 1
description: Bundle and serve typed [`MDX`](https://mdxjs.com/) documents in applications, that use Server *Side Rendering* or *Static Site Generation*.
hideLayout: true
---

## Notes

- Bundle mdx files in a `docs` folder, with [any file pattern](/configuration#options) or with a custom [`FileProvider`](/customization/DI/fileProvider).
- Support for typed [`Frontmatter`](/customization/DI/frontmatter), [`MDX`](https://mdxjs.com/) syntax in descriptions, table of contents, headings and more.
- Full support for custom components and snippets. Import anything in your documents,
- Uses [`mdx-bundler`](https://github.com/kentcdodds/mdx-bundler) and [`esbuild`](https://esbuild.github.io/) for blazingly fast bundling.

## Setup

### Installation

```
pnpm i mdx-butler mdx-bundler esbuild
```

### Framework Guides

<Examples />

### Bundling

The easiest way to get all bundled documents within a folder is to call the `bundle` function.

<Warning>
  `bundle`, `MDXService` or any other exports from the `mdx-butler` root
  entrypoint should only be imported in a server or build context.
</Warning>

Options and dependencies can be passed to `bundle` or `MDXService.create`.

<Info>
  If you require more control, consider [injecting
  dependencies](/customization/DI) and using `MDXService` directly.

For more information check out the [Configuration](/configuration) section!

</Info>

```ts {1,7-10} showLineNumbers
import { bundle } from 'mdx-butler';

// ...

return bundle({
  cwd: '/docs',
  fields: {
    title: {
      required: true,
    },
  },
});
```

<Success>
  Automatically generates a `FrontmatterProcessor`, according to the given
  `fields`.
</Success>

### `Component`

Create a component by using the `Component` exported from `mdx-butler/client`.

<Info>

Using `getComponent`, exported by `mdx-bundler` is another valid option.

</Info>

```tsx {1,12} showLineNumbers
import { Component } from 'mdx-butler/client';

// ...

const doc = docs.filter((x) => slug === x.path)[0];

if (!doc) return <div>not found</div>;

return (
  <div>
    <h1>{doc.frontmatter.title}</h1>
    <Component
      doc={doc}
      /* other props like global components */
    />
  </div>
);
```

<Success>
  Start editing `MDX` documents inside `/docs` or the configured [working
  directory](/configuration)
</Success>

## Mentions

- [`vike`](https://vike.dev/) for providing a customizable, versatile web framework.
- [`mdx-bundler`](https://github.com/kentcdodds/mdx-bundler) for providing a blazingly fast [`esbuild`](https://esbuild.github.io/mdx-bundler) based bundler for [`MDX`](https://mdxjs.com/) files.
- [`Contentlayer`](https://contentlayer.dev/) for providing inspiration around the [`MDX`](https://mdxjs.com/) Developer Experience.

Commit message:

feat: update docs, type logic (#2)
* v0.3.2

* Update pnpm-lock.yaml

* save

* Update docs.$slug.tsx

* chore: readme, index

docs/docs/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting Started
order: 1
description: Bundle and serve typed [`MDX`](https://mdxjs.com/) documents in applications, that use Server *Side Rendering* or *Static Site Generation*.
hideLayout: true
---

## Why?

Most web frameworks and build tools offer plugins to handle [`MDX`](https://mdxjs.com/) documents. While convenient, these plugins can in some cases limit control, force specific dependencies, create performance bottlenecks and complicate the migration of your documentation to a Service, CMS or database in the future.

**mdx-butler** (built upon [mdx-bundler](https://github.com/kentcdodds/mdx-bundler)) aims to offer a performant, flexible and framework-agnostic way to manage your MDX documentation. This maximizes flexibility and future-proofs your work for easy updates, migrations, and changes to your content source.

- **Enhanced content organization** with **typed Frontmatter** and **MDX syntax** support within key document elements.
- **Framework independent:** Work smoothly without worrying about framework-specific plugins and dependencies.
- **Adaptability:** Switch content sources (Backend/Service, CMS, database, etc.) without major rewrites.
- **Performance:** Leverages [mdx-bundler](https://github.com/kentcdodds/mdx-bundler) and [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/) for efficient compilation and bundling of MDX with imported dependencies.
- **Customization:** Easily inject globals, components, and application logic for rich, interactive documentation.

## Setup

### Installation

```
pnpm i mdx-butler mdx-bundler esbuild
```

### Framework Guides

<Examples />

### Bundling

The easiest way to get all bundled documents within a folder is to call the `bundle` function.

<Warning>
  `bundle`, `MDXService` or any other exports from the `mdx-butler` root
  entrypoint should only be imported in a server or build context.
</Warning>

Options and dependencies can be passed to `bundle` or `MDXService.create`.

<Info>
  If you require more control, consider [injecting
  dependencies](/customization/DI) and using `MDXService` directly.

For more information check out the [Configuration](/configuration) section!

</Info>

```ts {1,7-10} showLineNumbers
import { bundle } from 'mdx-butler';

// ...

return bundle({
  cwd: '/docs',
  fields: {
    title: {
      required: true,
    },
  },
});
```

<Success>
  Automatically generates a `FrontmatterProcessor`, according to the given
  `fields`.
</Success>

### `Component`

Create a component by using the `Component` exported from `mdx-butler/client`.

<Info>

Using `getComponent`, exported by `mdx-bundler` is another valid option.

</Info>

```tsx {1,12} showLineNumbers
import { Component } from 'mdx-butler/client';

// ...

const doc = docs.filter((x) => slug === x.path)[0];

if (!doc) return <div>not found</div>;

return (
  <div>
    <h1>{doc.frontmatter.title}</h1>
    <Component
      doc={doc}
      /* other props like global components */
    />
  </div>
);
```

<Success>
  Start editing `MDX` documents inside `/docs` or the configured [working
  directory](/configuration)
</Success>

## Mentions

- [`vike`](https://vike.dev/) for providing a customizable, versatile web framework.
- [`mdx-bundler`](https://github.com/kentcdodds/mdx-bundler) for providing a blazingly fast [`esbuild`](https://esbuild.github.io/mdx-bundler) based bundler for [`MDX`](https://mdxjs.com/) files.
- [`Contentlayer`](https://contentlayer.dev/) for providing inspiration around the [`MDX`](https://mdxjs.com/) Developer Experience.
